---
layout: post
title:  "Clarity"
date:   2016-02-26 20:10:25
categories: people team workflow self
---


> The quality of being clear, in particular.

> The quality of being coherent and intelligible.

> The quality of being easy to see or hear; sharpness of image or sound.

> The quality of being certain or definite.

-- from Oxford Dictionary

The last definition captures my thought most accurately. 

There are LOTS of circumstances when you don't have a hundred percent clarity or certainty (maybe even ALL circumstances). But to progress in the midst of uncertainties, there needs to be some level (even the tiniest bit) of certainty. That small part that you're sure of. That part of the puzzle that is clear. The `2` (constant) in the equation `x + 2 = 2x` that is unclear.
It's your duty to figure out what's clear and use it as a step to solve what's unclear.

# Self

Clarity applies to solving things personally. The part of the problem statement/question that you can clearly define is the key to unlocking the whole problem. There'd be variables most times, but the way to solve them is to use the definite part of the problem.

# Top down 

When leading a group of people, having some measure of clarity in the instructions you give is critical to how well (and when) the task would get done by the team. You need to watch for points of confusion in the instructions (even when the team members don't spot it themselves). If there's no clarity, from the lead's end or the members' receiving end, there'll be no direction for the team, thus, no goal would be achieved. 

The exception is when the role of a team member is figuring out unknowns. In that case, the "self" part above applies.
